GDPR + AcraCensor (#69)
cossacklabs/product-docs: acra/security-controls/sql-firewall/table_filter.md

---
title: "Tables filters"
bookCollapseSection: true
---

## Tables

Tables work in the following manner: the names of the tables are alternately extracted from the queries that address the database and each table is compared to the list of tables from the configuration file.
There is a restriction for query types: only `SELECT` and `INSERT` types are allowed, other query types are not supported.
This filter Used differently by `allow`/`deny` handlers. Allow handler pass query only if all tables specified in configuration file matched with tables in the query and deny if at least one specified table not matched.

> Deny handler denies query if at least one specified table in the configuration file matched with tables in the query. Look on examples below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deny handler denies query if at least one table specified in the configuration file matches tables in the query. Look at examples below.
```

### Allow handler

> Allow handler deny any query if it not contains whole set of tables specified in configuration file for handler. To allow, count of tables in configuration file should be equal count of tables in the query. And all tables from configuration file should be matched to tables in the query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Allow handler denies any query if it does not contain the whole set of tables specified in configuration file for this handler. Query is allowed if number of tables in configuration file equals to number of tables in the query. E.g. all tables from configuration file should be presented in a set of tables of the query.
```

> Allow handler denies any query if it does not contain the whole set of tables specified in configuration file for this handler. Query is allowed if number of tables in configuration file equals to number of tables in the query. E.g. all tables from configuration file should be presented in a set of tables of the query.

Reviewer 2: - Formatting, wording, grammar.
- Changed the wording to not imply that query *must* use all tables listed (that is, not using a table from the list does not deny the query).

```suggestion
`allow` handler allows queries if they contain only tables specified in the configuration file.
If a query uses a table not from the provided list, `allow` handler does not apply
and the following handlers will be considered next.
```

Author: actually, it will deny query that uses tables not from the list. and query **must** use all tables in current implementation.
changed.

| list of tables | allowed queries | denied queries |
| ------- | ------- | ------- |
| `["EMPLOYEE"]` | `SELECT EMP_ID, LAST_NAME FROM EMPLOYEE WHERE CITY = 'Seattle' ORDER BY EMP_ID;`<br/><br/>`INSERT INTO EMPLOYEE values(1, 'email', 'name');` | `SELECT EMP_ID, LAST_NAME FROM EMPLOYEE_TBL WHERE CITY = 'Seattle' ORDER BY EMP_ID;`<br/><br/>`SELECT EMP_ID, LAST_NAME FROM EMPLOYEE, EMPLOYEE_TBL WHERE CITY = 'Seattle' ORDER BY EMP_ID;`<br/><br/>`INSERT INTO EMPLOYEE_TBL VALUES (1, 'email', 'name');`
| `["EMPLOYEE", "EMPLOYEE_TBL"]` | `SELECT EMP_ID, LAST_NAME FROM EMPLOYEE, EMPLOYEE_TBL WHERE CITY = 'INDIANAPOLIS' ORDER BY EMP_ID asc;` | `SELECT EMP_ID, LAST_NAME FROM EMPLOYEE, EMPLOYEE_TBL, CUSTOMERS WHERE CITY = 'INDIANAPOLIS' ORDER BY EMP_ID asc;`<br/><br/>`INSERT INTO EMPLOYEE VALUES(1, 'email', 'name');`

### Deny handler

> Deny handler denies queries if they contain any of table specified in configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deny handler denies queries if they contain any table specified in configuration file.
```

> Deny handler denies queries if they contain any table specified in configuration file.

Reviewer 2: - Formatting, grammar.

```suggestion
`deny` handler denies queries if they contain any table specified in the configuration file.
```

| list of tables | allowed queries | denied queries |
| ------- | ------- | ------- |
| `["EMPLOYEE"]` | `SELECT EMP_ID, LAST_NAME FROM EMPLOYEE_TBL WHERE CITY = 'Seattle' ORDER BY EMP_ID;`<br/><br/>`INSERT INTO EMPLOYEE_TBL values(1, 'email', 'name');` | `SELECT EMP_ID, LAST_NAME FROM EMPLOYEE WHERE CITY = 'Seattle' ORDER BY EMP_ID;`<br/><br/>`SELECT EMP_ID, LAST_NAME FROM EMPLOYEE, EMPLOYEE_TBL WHERE CITY = 'Seattle' ORDER BY EMP_ID;`<br/><br/>`INSERT INTO EMPLOYEE VALUES (1, 'email', 'name');`

> | `["EMPLOYEE", "EMPLOYEE_TBL"]` | `SELECT CUST_ID, LAST_NAME FROM CUSTOMERS WHERE CITY = 'INDIANAPOLIS' ORDER BY CUST_ID asc;` | `SELECT EMP_ID, LAST_NAME FROM EMPLOYEE, CUSTOMERS, PROFILE WHERE CITY = 'INDIANAPOLIS' ORDER BY CUST_ID asc;`<br/><br/>`INSERT INTO EMPLOYEE VALUES(1, 'email', 'name');` <br/><br/>`SELECT EMP_ID, LAST_NAME FROM EMPLOYEE_TBL, CUSTOMERS, PROFILE WHERE CITY = 'INDIANAPOLIS' ORDER BY CUST_ID asc;`

Author: for reader of the source of docs or rendered docs?)
